Title: Thoughts on Scala
Date: 2013-10-30 21:44
Tags: scala, coursera

For about a month now, I've been working on a backend service in Scala.
This service is simply a REST API: It fetches a string from redis,
parses it as JSON, extracts some keys, serializes it as JSON, and
returns it. Pretty simple stuff. I've also just finished the Coursera
class Functional Programming with Scala. I'm still a beginner to Scala,
but here are some my thoughts on the language thus far.

### JSON

After working with languages like Python and Javascript for a while, I
got used to not having to worry about types too much. I didn't have to
enforce strict data formats all the time, and enjoyed the fact that JSON and
Python dictionaries were pretty similar. With Scala, I no longer have that
pleasure. JSON serialization/deserialization was much more difficult to
do. In Scala, there are way too many JSON libraries, with varying
degrees of easiness. I started with Lift JSON, then moved to Play
JSON, but usage was similar for both. To read JSON in Python, all I had
to do was this:

    :::python
    json.loads(json_data)['key1'][0]['key2']

With Lift JSON, I had to do this:

    :::scala
    val listItem = (parse(jsonData) \ "key1").extract[List[Map[String, String]]]
    val dataThatIWant = listItem(0)("key2")

And that was if `listItem` was a nice list of maps. If it wasn't, well,
then I would have to create a case class for the items in the list, and
maybe throw some Options in there. Yuck. The same thing applied to
creating a JSON object - if I just wanted a simple Map with some more
Maps and Lists, I would usually have to create some case classes. No
more arbitrary dictionaries anymore, everything had to be well defined
in advance.

### Options

An option is simply a construct that can either have a value or be null.
The usual way to handle options is to pattern match, but I found this to
be too verbose in situations where I knew the value was present. I'm
still not sure about the usefulness of options right now, but some
people love them.

### Functional Programming

I never really did true functional programming until now, but I have to
say, after completing the Coursera class, I really enjoy FP. I had a lot
of practice doing recursion, and now I can write recursive functions
without blinking, whereas before I would have to think a little.
Immutable variables was hard to work with at first, but once I got the
hang of it I saw that everything could be done immutably. Higher order
functions and comprehensions are all pretty intuitive (flatMap might be
the only weird one).

### Syntax

I'm not a big fan of optional dots and parentheses, since it sometimes
makes the code hard to read. I have the same complaint about
Coffeescript.

Overall, I really like Scala and functional programming. There are some
oddities, but nothing too crazy. To continue learning, I've signed up
for the next class in the series - Principles of Reactive programming,
taught by Martin Odersky again. It basically teaches the Typesafe stack,
which is great since I'm already using the Play framework. I'm also
reading Martin's *Programming in Scala*, and reading through
various Scala projects on Github. Scala is a cool language, and
infinitely more tolerable than Java.
